[refman] Describe the successive compilation steps. (#19759)
rocq-prover/rocq: doc/sphinx/language/extensions/compil-steps.rst

.. _compil-steps:

==============================
How Rocq Processes Input Terms
==============================

> It is in theory possible to write down every Gallina term explicitly

Reviewer: Do you mean "Gallina" here or "CIC+ term". We usually refer to Gallina as the surface language, but to be honest I'm not sure what the original intent was.

as described in the :ref:`Core Language <core-language>` part of this
manual, for instance
:n:`Nat.add (S O) (Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O)))`. However, this would
be very tedious and error-prone and takes us away from our usual
mathematical practice. To circumvent this, Rocq offers multiple
preprocessing mechanisms to help fill the gap between what the users
would like to input to the system and the fully formal core language
expected by the kernel. We give an overview of all these steps below.

For instance, the notation mechanisms reflects the eponymous mathematical
practice and allows to write :n:`1 + 2 * 2` instead of the above
term. Those mechanisms range from simple :ref:`Abbreviations` to full
fledged :ref:`Notations` with user defined :ref:`syntaxes
<ReservingNotations>`. Multiple interpretations can be given to the
same syntax in different contexts thanks to the :ref:`scope
<Scopes>` mechanism. For instance :n:`(1 + 2 * 2)%N` can be
the above natural number expression while :n:`(1 + 2 * 2)%Z` can be

> an expression with integers.

Author: That's exactly the point: we don't care about the precise context in which this means what, we only want to illustrate that scopes can be used to give different meanings to the same notation, period. We could just as well have used `%foo` and `%bar` here. There is nothing hardcoded in Coq itself anyway.

> In order to take the best part of all these preprocessing mechanisms,
> one needs a basic understanding of the multiple steps needed to
> transform an inputed term (possibly with notations) into the valid
> Gallina term which Rocq will ultimately use internally. Terms given as input
> to Rocq go through several successive steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to take the best part of all these preprocessing mechanisms,
one needs a basic understanding of the multiple steps needed to
transform an inputed term (possibly with notations) into the valid
Gallina term which Rocq will ultimately use internally. Terms given as input
to Rocq go through several successive steps:
```

The first sentence adds very little.  We wouldn't bother to explain the several successive steps unless it was important to the reader of this introductory material.  And I think distracting.

Correct spelling is "inputted", BTW.

"valid Gallina term" - doesn't fit `:uconstr(...)` so accurately

"successive" is a little misleading here, eg lexing and parsing a single sentence are overlapped in time.

Author: Well, this is technically true, but only in order to detect the end of the sentence. So the approximation is probably good enough for most users. Plus it's definitively a useful one. At worst we could add a note precising that, but that may be too much detail to state something relatively useless and obvious for those who really need to know it.

* During :gdef:`lexing` the input is split into a sequence of tokens,
  for instance the string ``"1 + 2 * 2"`` is split into the
  sequence of five tokens `'1' '+' '2' '*' '2'`. A set of :ref:`basic
  tokens <lexical-conventions>` are predefined and can be extended, in

>   particular by :ref:`reserving notations <ReservingNotations>`.

Reviewer 2: The second sentence jumps to a much greater level of detail, especially the part about reserving notations.  It's a distraction to include it here.  You might want to add that detail to the `lexical-conventions` section.  And referring to the lexical-conventions section is fine.

Author: Well, it's both important to know that there are some hardcoded tokens and that this set is extensible. We could maybe spare the link to how the extension can be done, but not sure this would spare much.

> * During :gdef:`parsing` the previous stream is interpreted as a tree,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* During :gdef:`parsing` the stream of tokens is interpreted as a tree,
```

this bullet and the previous bullet should use same word ("sequence" or "stream")

Also worth saying that each node in the parse tree corresponds to a production in the grammar.

  for instance here:

  .. code-block:: text
     :name: after-parsing

             +
            / \
           1   *
              / \
             2   2

  The parsed grammar can be modified by :ref:`reserving notations
  <ReservingNotations>`.

* During :gdef:`internalization` a number of things are resolved. This
  includes :ref:`name resolution <qualified-names>`, :term:`notation

>   interpretation` or introduction of :term:`holes <hole>` for :ref:`implicit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  interpretation` and introduction of :term:`holes <hole>` for :ref:`implicit
```

  arguments <ImplicitArguments>`.
  :gdef:`Notation interpretation <notation interpretation>`

>   translates each syntactic element to a term,

Reviewer 2: Only notations are translated.  `S O` is not translated.

Author: Well, yes, `S O` is the result of the translation of `1`. The text doesn't say anything else.

>   for instance :n:`1` can be interpreted as the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  for instance, by default, :n:`1` is interpreted as the
```

ignoring obscure things done with number formats. or using binary nats/ints

Author: Again, this is missing the point, we don't care about the precise context here, we just want to give an idea of the existence and goal of the general mechanism.

  natural number :n:`S O` then :n:`2` is interpreted as :n:`S (S O)`,
  then :n:`2 * 2` as :n:`Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O))` and finally our
  whole term as :n:`Nat.add (S O) (Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O)))`. The
  same expression can be given multiple interpretations in various
  contexts thanks to :ref:`Scopes`.

> * Finally, :gdef:`pretyping`, can use the various mechanisms described in

Reviewer: I think here using a more standard functional language terminology, for example, "pretyping" is what most FP programmers understand as "type inference", would make it easier to understand.

  this section to fill gaps (for instance with :ref:`canonical structures
  <canonicalstructures>` or :ref:`typeclasses`) or fix terms (for
  instance with :ref:`coercions`) to obtain fully detailed terms in
  the :ref:`Core Language <core-language>`.

> For each sentence, coq performs these steps successively and
> independently. Once a step is completed, there is no going back. Then,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each sentence, Rocq performs these steps successively and
independently. Then,
```

You've not said what a sentence is.

> independently. Once a step is completed, there is no going back. Then,

Reviewer: I feel a bit confused by "there is no going back", I'm not sure what it means. In particular, given that printing does go back, namely detyping and externalizing terms.

the result goes through the type checking phases discussed in
:ref:`previous chapter <core-language>`.

> No types are involved at any point during the first threee phases. And

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No types are involved at any point during the first three phases. And
```

reciprocally, none of the feature resolved during these phases, like
unqualified names, implicit arguments or notations, remains during the

> later elaboration and type checking phases.

Reviewer: I don't understand this paragraph, what does "no types involved" mean? You mean "typing" instead?

.. note::

   For developers and extension language users, the first two phases
   (:term:`lexing` and :term:`parsing`), together with a few more

>    steps such as reading :cmd:`Reserved Notation`, are jointly called

Author: Note that this is just because `Notation` can actually hide a `Reserved Notation` (without even a warning, which is pretty bad IMO and significantly contributes to the "black magic" reputation of notations), but that's another discussion.

   the syntax interpretation (ot synterp for short) phase, whereas
   internalization, elaboration and typechecking are called the
   interpretation phase. A document can thus be entirely parsed by
   running the synterp phase on it, without having to actually run any
   interpretation.

.. note::

   The :term:`pretyping` phase together with, all or part of, the
   previous steps is sometimes called elaboration in the literature.

.. note::

>    Somme commands store terms for later use (for instance ``Ltac foo

Reviewer 3: Some
```suggestion
   Some commands store terms for later use (for instance ``Ltac foo
```

.. _compil-steps:

========================
Command level processing
========================

When a command, for instance :g:`Check 1 + 2 * 2.` is fed to Rocq, it
goes through several *successive* processing steps.

Lexing
~~~~~~

The first step, :gdef:`lexing` splits the input into a sequence of
tokens, for instance the string ``"Check 1 + 2 * 2."`` is split into
the sequence of seven tokens `'Check' '1' '+' '2' '*' '2' '.'`. A set
of :ref:`basic tokens <lexical-conventions>` are predefined and can be
extended, in particular by
:ref:`reserving notations <ReservingNotations>`.

Parsing
~~~~~~~

During :gdef:`parsing` the sequence of tokens is interpreted as a
tree, for instance here:

.. code-block:: text
   :name: after-parsing

         Check
           |
           +
          / \
         1   *
            / \
           2   2

The parsed grammar can be modified, for instance by
:ref:`reserving notations <ReservingNotations>`.

Synterp
~~~~~~~

In addition to the above lexing and parsing, the :gdef:`synterp` phase

> does just enough job to be able to parse the remaining commands.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
does just enough to be able to parse the remaining commands.
```
I would like this paragraph to be more precise. I don't really understand what is happening during `synterp` by reading it. I can't really help, since I really don't know what it does.

Author: I've added a short sentence mentioning plugins, Require and Import.
Also added a small note mentioning that this synterp/interp distinction is important for developers but shouldn't matter too much for users.

Typically, this means applying the effects of :cmd:`Reserved Notation`
commands.

Interp
~~~~~~

The :gdef:`interp` phase performs the specific effect of each command.
If the command contains terms, they will be processed in distinct
steps as explained below.

.. note::

   Depending on the Rocq interface used (``rocq compile``, ``rocq
   top`` or various IDEs), Rocq may run the interp phase for each

>    command immediatly after its synterp phase, or it may run the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   command immediately after its synterp phase, or it may run the
```

  arguments <ImplicitArguments>`.
  :gdef:`Notation interpretation <notation interpretation>`
  translates each syntactic element to a term,
  for instance :n:`1` can be interpreted as the
  natural number :n:`S O` then :n:`2` is interpreted as :n:`S (S O)`,
  then :n:`2 * 2` as :n:`Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O))` and finally our
  whole term as :n:`Nat.add (S O) (Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O)))`. The
  same expression can be given multiple interpretations in various
  contexts thanks to :ref:`Scopes`.

* Finally, :gdef:`type inference`, can use the various mechanisms described in
  this section to fill gaps (for instance with :ref:`canonical structures
  <canonicalstructures>` or :ref:`typeclasses`) or fix terms (for
  instance with :ref:`coercions <coercions>`) to obtain fully detailed terms in
  the :ref:`Core Language <core-language>`.

For each term, Rocq performs these steps *successively* and
*independently*.
Then, the result goes through the type checking phases discussed in
:ref:`previous chapter <core-language>`.
None of the steps has any impact on the previous ones.
In particular, no typecheking is involved during parsing or

> internalization. Also note that none of the feature resolved during

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
internalization. Also note that none of the features resolved during
```

these phases, like unqualified names, implicit arguments or notations,

> remains during the later elaboration and type checking phases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
remains during the later type inference and type checking phases.
```

.. note::

   The :term:`type inference` phase together with, all or part of, the
   previous steps is sometimes called elaboration in the literature.

.. example:: Simple interleaving of intern and type inference phases

   The command :g:`Definition foo : T := body.` has a trivial
   :term:`synterp` phase. Indeed, it doesn't influence any further
   parsing. Its :term:`interp` phase will internalize :g:`T` and infer
   types in it, then it will internalize :g:`body` and infer types in
   it, using :g:`T` as expected type. Note that the result of type
   inference in :g:`T` matters in internalization of :g:`body`, for
   instance for selecting notation scopes. Finally, the resulting

>    :g:`foo : T := body` is sent to the kernel.

Reviewer 3: Is it possible to have a  concrete example instead?
For instance `Definition foo : list _ := cons 4 (cons 2 nil).`

Reviewer 3: (But I would not block this PR for this, it can come later).

Author: Well, a more concrete example would have to be a bit more involved to illustrate the previous sentence (in your example `Definition foo : list _ := cons 4 (cons 2 nil).` and `Definition foo := cons 4 (cons 2 nil).` are equivalent). I'd rather not have a too complicated example.

.. _compil-steps:

========================
Command level processing
========================

When a command, for instance :g:`Check 1 + 2 * 2.` is fed to Rocq, it
goes through several *successive* processing steps.

.. note::

   Understanding the distinction between lexing and parsing is
   sometimes required to make good use of the notation features.
   The synterp/interp distinction, while important for developers,

>    should be mostly transparent for users.

Reviewer: Maybe a quick overview of the phases could be added, with a short description of each:

- *lexing*: converts a string stream into a stream of tokens
- *parsing*: converts a token stream into a syntax tree
- *synterp*: ....

extended, in particular by
:ref:`reserving notations <ReservingNotations>`.

Parsing
~~~~~~~

During :gdef:`parsing` the sequence of tokens is interpreted as a
tree, for instance here:

.. code-block:: text
   :name: after-parsing

         Check
           |
           +
          / \
         1   *
            / \
           2   2

The parsed grammar can be modified, for instance by
:ref:`reserving notations <ReservingNotations>`.

Synterp
~~~~~~~

In addition to the above lexing and parsing, the :gdef:`synterp` phase
does just enough to be able to parse the remaining commands.
Typically, this means applying the effects of :cmd:`Reserved Notation`
commands. Plugins loading, :cmd:`Require` and :cmd:`Import` commands
can also have synterp effects.

Interp
~~~~~~

The :gdef:`interp` phase performs the specific effect of each command.
If the command contains terms, they will be processed in distinct
steps as explained below.

.. note::

   Depending on the Rocq interface used (``rocq compile``, ``rocq
   top`` or various IDEs), Rocq may run the interp phase for each
   command immediately after its synterp phase, or it may run the

>    synterp phase for every comman in the file before running any

Reviewer: typo `comman`

* :term:`parsing` converts the sequence of tokens into a syntax tree ;
* :term:`synterp` does just enough to be able to proceed parsing the
  file (that is, executes the few commands that can modify the lexer
  or parser) ;
* :term:`interp` executes the bulk of the parsed commands.

.. note::

   Understanding the distinction between lexing and parsing is
   sometimes required to make good use of the notation features.
   The synterp/interp distinction, while important for developers,
   should be mostly transparent for users.

Lexing
~~~~~~

The first step, :gdef:`lexing` splits the input into a sequence of
tokens, for instance the string ``"Check 1 + 2 * 2."`` is split into
the sequence of seven tokens `'Check' '1' '+' '2' '*' '2' '.'`. A set
of :ref:`basic tokens <lexical-conventions>` are predefined and can be
extended, in particular by
:ref:`reserving notations <ReservingNotations>`.

Parsing
~~~~~~~

During :gdef:`parsing` the sequence of tokens is interpreted as a
tree, for instance here:

.. code-block:: text
   :name: after-parsing

         Check
           |
           +
          / \
         1   *
            / \

>            2   2

Reviewer 4: IDK

  interpretation` and introduction of :term:`holes <hole>` for :ref:`implicit
  arguments <ImplicitArguments>`.
  :gdef:`Notation interpretation <notation interpretation>`
  translates each syntactic element to a term,
  for instance :n:`1` can be interpreted as the
  natural number :n:`S O` then :n:`2` is interpreted as :n:`S (S O)`,
  then :n:`2 * 2` as :n:`Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O))` and finally our
  whole term as :n:`Nat.add (S O) (Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O)))`. The
  same expression can be given multiple interpretations in various
  contexts thanks to :ref:`Scopes`.

* Finally, :gdef:`type inference`, can use the various mechanisms described in
  this section to fill gaps (for instance with :ref:`canonical structures
  <canonicalstructures>` or :ref:`typeclasses`) or fix terms (for
  instance with :ref:`coercions <coercions>`) to obtain fully detailed terms in
  the :ref:`Core Language <core-language>`.

For each term, Rocq performs these steps *successively* and
*independently*.
Then, the result goes through the type checking phases discussed in
:ref:`previous chapter <core-language>`.
None of the steps has any impact on the previous ones.

> In particular, no typecheking is involved during parsing or

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In particular, no typechecking is involved during parsing or
```

.. example:: Simple interleaving of intern and type inference phases

   The command :g:`Definition foo : T := body.` has a trivial
   :term:`synterp` phase. Indeed, it doesn't influence any further
   parsing. Its :term:`interp` phase will internalize :g:`T` and infer
   types in it, then it will internalize :g:`body` and infer types in
   it, using :g:`T` as expected type. Note that the result of type
   inference in :g:`T` matters in internalization of :g:`body`, for
   instance for selecting notation scopes. Finally, the resulting
   :g:`foo : T := body` is sent to the kernel.

.. example:: Delayed steps

   :g:`Ltac foo := exact term.` will internalize :g:`term` and save
   the result. Only when the :g:`foo` tactic will be called, will the
   type inference on the resulting :n:`term` be run, with the type of
   the current goal as expected type. If this succeeds, the proof
   state will be updated to fill the goal, and the kernel will see the
   result at :cmd:`Qed`.

.. example:: Reserved notation

   The command :g:`Reserved Notation "x + y" (at level 50, left
   associativity).` has a non trivial synterp phase, as it extends the

>    parser so that :n:`_ + _` can later be parsed.

Reviewer 4: Is it worth mentioning that it has a trivial `interp` phase?

Author: Why not, done

> .. _compil-steps:

Reviewer 2: This section, after revision, should be under "Basic notions and conventions", maybe just before [here](https://coq.inria.fr/doc/V8.20.0/refman/language/core/basic.html#essential-vocabulary)

======================
Main Compilation Steps
======================

It is in theory possible to write down every Gallina term explicitly
as described in the :ref:`Core Language <core-language>` part of this
manual, in the way they are understood by the kernel, for instance

> :n:`Nat.add (S O) (Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O)))`. However, this would

Reviewer 4: that is not the way the kernel sees them, kernel names are fully explicit, split names in (library name / module name / label) and constructors are (name of inductive / constructor index)
(and then there's the kerpair stuff)

Author: Sure, but do we want to enter into that much details here? We could write `Stdlib.Init.Nat.add (Stdlib.Init.Datatypes.S Stdlib.Init.Datatypes.O) (Stdlib.Init.Nat.mul (Stdlib.Init.Datatypes.S (Stdlib.Init.Datatypes.S Stdlib.Init.Datatypes.O)) (Stdlib.Init.Datatypes.S (Stdlib.Init.Datatypes.S Stdlib.Init.Datatypes.O)))` as an intermediate solution, but that's already pretty verbose.

be very tedious and error-prone and takes us away from our usual
mathematical practice. To circumvent this, Rocq offers multiple
preprocessing mechanisms to help fill the gap between what the users
would like to input to the system and the fully formal core language
expected by the kernel.

> For instance, the notation mechanisms reflects the eponym mathematical
> practice and allows to write :n:`1 + 2 * 2` instead of the above
> term. Those mechanisms range from simple :ref:`Abbreviations` to full

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instance, the notation mechanism lets you
write :n:`1 + 2 * 2` instead of the longer and less readable term shown above.
Those mechanisms range from simple :ref:`Abbreviations` to full
```

Eponymous is the adjective form that's grammatically correct, but this should be said in a simpler language.

Author: Unfortunately your suggestion is loosing the idea that notation is the notation concept mathematician are familiar with.

Reviewer 2: Then adapt my suggestion.  "eponymous mathematical practice" is a mouthful and vague.  How about "the notation mechanism lets you use forms similar to common mathematical notation"?  (There are differences, e.g. for subscripts and superscripts, summations don't have a large sigma, etc.)

Author: Yes, this is again missing the point: what's similar is the concept, not necessarily the exact notations (which are out of the scope here anyway).

fledged :ref:`Notations` with user defined :ref:`syntaxes
<ReservingNotations>`. Multiple interpretations can be given to the
same syntax in different contexts thanks to the :ref:`scope

> <Scopes>` mechanism. For instance :n:`(1 + 2 * 2)%N` could denote the
> above natural number expression while :n:`(1 + 2 * 2)%Z` could denote
> a similar expression with integers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Scopes>` mechanism. For instance :n:`(1 + 2 * 2)%N` is
a natural number expression while :n:`(1 + 2 * 2)%Z` is
an expression with integers.
```

simpler language.

Author: This is also changing the meaning. I tried to preserve it.

In order to take the best part of all these preprocessing mechanisms,
one needs a basic understanding of the multiple steps needed to
transform an inputed term (possibly with notations) into the valid

> Gallina term which Rocq will ultimately use internally. When inputing
> a term to Rocq, it goes through several successive steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gallina term which Rocq will ultimately use internally. Input to
Rocq goes through several steps:
```

Author: Tried to keep the "term" and "successive" notions that are both important.

* During :gdef:`lexing` the input is split into a sequence of tokens,

>   for instance the string ``"1 + 2 * 2"`` will be split into the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  for instance the string ``"1 + 2 * 2"`` is split into the
```

  sequence of five tokens `'1' '+' '2' '*' '2'`. A set of :ref:`basic
  tokens <lexical-conventions>` are predefined and can be extended, in
  particular by :ref:`reserving notations <ReservingNotations>`.

> * During :gdef:`parsing` the previous stream is given a tree-like
>   structure, for instance here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* During :gdef:`parsing` the previous stream is interpreted as a tree,
   for instance:
```

  .. code-block:: text
     :name: after-parsing

             +
            / \
           1   *
              / \

>              2   2

Reviewer 2: I expect all readers know what parsing is.  The diagram seems unnecessary--it doesn't provide any new information.

Author: Doesn't hurt either to continue the running example.

  The parsed grammar can be modified by :ref:`reserving notations
  <ReservingNotations>`.

> * During :gdef:`notation interpretation` each syntactic element gets

Reviewer 4: The actual internalization phase combines notation interpretation, name resolution, implicit argument insertion and possibly some other stuff that I forgot about.

  translated to a term, for instance :n:`1` can be interpreted as the
  natural number :n:`S O` then :n:`2` is interpreted as :n:`S (S O)`,
  then :n:`2 * 2` as :n:`Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O))` and finally our
  whole term as :n:`Nat.add (S O) (Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O)))`. The
  same expression can be given multiple interpretations in various
  contexts thanks to :ref:`Scopes`.

> * Finally, :gdef:`elaboration` (also called :gdef:`pretyping` in the

Reviewer 2: If you're going to add a glossary definition, you should provide an explicit and complete definition.  What you have here is very implicit and I suspect there are additional steps that you haven't mentioned.  Wrestling those specifics into easily readable prose without overboard into details is the hard work of writing documentation.

  source code of Rocq) can use the various mechanisms described in
  this section to fill gaps (for instance with :ref:`implicit

>   arguments <ImplicitArguments>`, :ref:`canonical structures

Reviewer 4: implicit arguments are intern time not pretype time

Author: Well, the introduction of holes indeed, their filing is done at elaboration.

Reviewer 4: the introduction of holes is the entire point of implicit arguments IMO

  <canonicalstructures>` or :ref:`typeclasses`) or fix terms (for

>   instance with :ref:`coercions`) to obtain fully detailled terms in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  instance with :ref:`coercions`) to obtain fully detailed terms in
```

"detailed" is vague and undefined

Author: Well, that's what the link just after is for.

  the :ref:`Core Language <core-language>`.

For each sentence, coq performs these steps successively and

> independently. Once a step is completed, there is no going back. Then,

Reviewer 4: "there is no going back" except in ltac1 which can do intern twice

Author: Do we want that much details?

Reviewer 4: probably not, if needed it can be in the ltac1 doc

the result goes through the type checking phases discussed in

> :ref:`previous chapter <core-language>`.

Reviewer 2: I don't recall a discussion of type checking phases in that chapter.  If you hyperlink, it should be a lot more specific than that very length and technical chapter.

The first three phases (:term:`lexing`, :term:`parsing` and
:term:`notation interpretation`) are sometimes jointly called the

> syntax interpretation (ot synterp for short) phase, whereas

Reviewer 4: notation interpretation / intern is not part of synterp

Reviewer 4: synterp is parsing plus the minimum work to be able to parse the following commands (typically notation reservation + import of reserved notations + enough module handling to resolve what is imported in Import + plugin loading)

Author: So it's only lexing and parsing? Sorry, my understanding of synterp/interp remains pretty poor.

Reviewer 2: IINM "synterp" is a term used by developers.  Why do users need to know the term?  We shouldn't define useless terms--it's just more mental clutter.

Author: It's not so clear cut, the distinction is also of interest to plugin developers and users of extension languages. Since it's indeed not very useful for casual users, I isolated it in a specific note.

> elaboration and typechecking are called the interpretation phase.

Reviewer 2: Same thing, why do users need to know that it's called the interpretation phase?

  tokens <lexical-conventions>` are predefined and can be extended, in
  particular by :ref:`reserving notations <ReservingNotations>`.

* During :gdef:`parsing` the previous stream is interpreted as a tree,
  for instance here:

  .. code-block:: text
     :name: after-parsing

             +
            / \
           1   *
              / \
             2   2

  The parsed grammar can be modified by :ref:`reserving notations
  <ReservingNotations>`.

* During :gdef:`internalization` a number of things are resolved. This
  includes :ref:`name resolution <qualified-names>`, :term:`notation
  interpretation` or introduction of :term:`holes <hole>` for :ref:`implicit
  arguments <ImplicitArguments>`.
  :gdef:`Notation interpretation <notation interpretation>`
  translates each syntactic element to a term,
  for instance :n:`1` can be interpreted as the
  natural number :n:`S O` then :n:`2` is interpreted as :n:`S (S O)`,
  then :n:`2 * 2` as :n:`Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O))` and finally our
  whole term as :n:`Nat.add (S O) (Nat.mul (S (S O)) (S (S O)))`. The
  same expression can be given multiple interpretations in various
  contexts thanks to :ref:`Scopes`.

> * Finally, :gdef:`elaboration` (also called :gdef:`pretyping` in the

Reviewer 4: "elaboration" sometimes refers to the whole pipeline instead of just this step so IMO it's not a great name.

"pretyping" isn't great either but may be less overloaded.
